# dogfact_app

Nikolas S Fisher
Ascent Integrated Tech.
Coding Assessment
Title: My Dog Fact App

## Questions

## How long did the assessment take to complete? Was there any task that took significantly longer than the others, and if so why?

For this assessment, I was unable to complete it in its entirety. I spent about 2-3 days working on this assessment with the given time and the time I had available to me. This was my first time attempting to create an application using this software, and programming languages, so it involved a steep learning curve to overcome many of this assessment’s challenges. Although there were tasks, I was unfamiliar with and unable to complete, I was able to take advantage of my curious and persistent nature to push through. Dealing with Flutter involved a more manual installation from other software programs I am familiar with, so involved more attention to detail than most. Once this hurdle was completed, and I had the environment all set up, the next challenge was learning Flutter and the dart language and understanding how to properly display information on a screen, this was the longest and most challenging part. Even with the countless resources available to me, I still found it confusing when dealing with the widgets, and the parents and children of Flutter. I tried to understand the widget tree by following the flow along with some similar code, however, I was never able to fully comprehend it. This part I have still yet to fully comprehend and understand however I know with some more time, resources, and possible guidance I will be able to fully express my curious and driven nature through the creation of many useful and interesting apps. 

## Were there any tasks that you initially did not know how to complete? And if so, how did you approach them and take the steps to learn how to complete them? (It's okay if the answer is yes! Everyone learns on the job at some point)

When it comes to admitting my shortcomings, I am no stranger, and this assessment was a foreign task to me. From the installation of the proper software to the displaying of information on the application, I was learning on the go. My first glance at the assessment I was not sure how to proceed, but with a calm and collected mind I was able to dissect and extract the important pieces of information from the assessment guidelines. Using this information, I first began by setting up my device with the necessary software. During this process, I messed up multiple times, but with some more research and tutorials, I was able to install Flutter and set it up with VS code. To ensure I would be able to develop this app I made sure to take the time to research the proper steps for installation and mapping of the software applications. 
Even when it came to coding the application, I had to learn it all from scratch. Since I lacked the knowledge to complete this assessment, I had to take advantage of practices used in the Agile methodology. This allowed me to ensure I would submit the most up-to-date and functional application in the shortest time possible. This process involved testing as I went, seeing how each small tweak changed the overall application. However, this project still involved many steps and components, so I needed to break it down into smaller, more manageable tasks. The first step involved identifying the main components/elements of the application, the layout, and widgets. This allowed me to simplify the task by only dealing with one problem at a time, getting more complex as I went. Breaking down the problem also allowed for research to be more specified and detailed, shortening the overall development cycle. The second step incorporated using all the information accumulated while researching and doing my best to implement it. I would start by slowly making changes and doing my best to understand how each line of code affected the application. During this step, I would still continuously run into problems I was not sure how to complete so I would have to take a step back from coding and start researching again. When this failed, I decided to create another flutter project and used that as a playground to work with and understand individual widgets and connections. This step was probably the most useful because it allowed me to work with the concepts in real time, giving me a good understanding of how it might play into my application. Although these steps allowed me to gain significant progress, it, unfortunately, was not enough to complete this assessment and because of that, there were tasks I did not have the option to attempt like updating the card with a random dog fact and favoriting. Even though this assessment may be over I am excited and eager to continue my development of this application until I can fully complete the assessment with the bonus implementations. 

## Was this assessment feasible for the time given and relatively easy to follow? Any points of feedback?

Although I was not able to complete the assessment in the time provided, I do believe it is feasible to complete the assessment in the time given. The instructions given were as clear as possible without giving too much away and allowed the participant to identify and extract the important pieces of information needed to create the application. I had no questions regarding what the tasks wanted of me, but only how to install and implement elements of the application.  Even though this was my first time creating an application and using the Flutter software, I still thought the level of this assignment allowed for a thorough evaluation of the participant's time management and problem-solving skills. This allowed me to gain a good insight and understanding of what kind of development and applications Ascent would be working with and gave me an introduction to the workload and demands I would be facing. Although this was my first attempt at developing an application, it will not be my last. This small project has allowed me to gain a broad enough understanding to continue with my development of applications using the Flutter framework. With my curious and driven nature, I know I will be eager to work on more projects on my own until I can master the software and develop applications like this assessment in no time.
This project is a starting point for a Flutter application.


